# si507_final_project
README: 
When running the program: 

First Step: Enter the stock code of Chinese A-stock, for example 000001 or 601111. 

Second Step: Enter a start year, for example 2020 or 2021.

Third Step: Enter a end year, which is later than the start year, for example 2021 or 2022.

Forth Step: Enter a number representing the principal money amount. This number can not be too small, preventing the amount from being too small to complete the simulated transaction. A number like 100000 or 1000000 is suitable.

Fifth Step: After completing login, logout and simulating. The program will show the average PB, average PB, average PS and total profit. There will be a tree method questioning. We can answer “yes” or “no” to get the investment advice.

Sixth Step: There will be two graphs shown.

Python Packs:

import sys

listone=sys.path

listone.append('C:\\Users\\user\\AppData\\Local\\Programs\\Python\\Python37\\Lib\\site-packages')

sys.path = listone

from mplfinance.original_flavor import candlestick_ohlc

from matplotlib.dates import date2num

import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

import requests

from dateutil import parser

from time import sleep

from datetime import datetime,time,timedelta 

import pandas as pd 

import os

import numpy as np 

import baostock as bs 

import pysnooper

Data Sources:
Origins: www.baostock.com
Format: CSV

How to access: 
use the function from baostock pack to get the PE, PB and time-series data. The code uses caching to store data as DataFrame form and then saves data as csv files to local.

Summary of data:
There are more than 20000 records available each year, a new record is generated every 5 minutes. I will mainly use five data in the record: datetime, open, high, low, close, which respectively represent the time node, opening price, highest price, lowest price and closing price of the stock price. Based on the above five data, simulate the change of the stock price in the selected time period.

How data is organized into data structure:
Run the function run_backtesting_dual_thrust to perform the following. 
The function stock_PEPB gets the stock’ s PE and PB from previously saved csv files. The function get_ticks_for_backtesting gets the stock’ s price, which is given every 5 minutes, from previously saved csv files. Then it estimates price changes within the 5-minute intervals, saving the results in attribute as a list. 
According to financial knowledge, the function strategy_dual_thrust imitates trading based on the function Buy, and the function Sell. Then, it saves the date purchased and sold, price, and number of stocks as dictionary into the attribute. 
using stock prices generated by the function get_ticks_for_backtesting, the function candlestick_ohlc from the package mplfinance.original_flavor generates a graph that shows the stock price k-line. The function ax.plot uses information from the function strategy_dual_thrust, and generates blue dots which represent price and date of purchase and sell.
Based on the difference between prices of purchase and sell, the function plt.subplots generates a bar chart that shows loss and gain of each trading. 
According to PE and PB obtained by the function stock_PEPB, a tree method is implemented, which allows users to answer questions based on the average PE of their ideal stocks to determine whether this stock is the user's ideal stock.

How to interact with my program: Users choose and enter any existing Chinese A-stock stock code and any time span during the listing period of the stock.
Users can answer the questions based on the performance of their ideal stock, and let the program judge whether the stock is worth investing.

